hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewsday.com I'm your host Dylan
brobowski this episode of the smart
economy podcast is part of a handful
we'll be releasing about Bridging the
knowledge gap between traditional
internet and finance and the web3
industry in this episode I chat with
James wayborn the chief design officer
at coz James is an industry veteran
responsible for many of the design
campaigns that have been seen across the
Neo ecosystem including the coz Rebrand
the Neo N3 brand Neo's website the Dora
blockchain Explorer neon desktop and
mobile wallets Grant shares and many
others in this conversation James and I
talk about his background and Industry
awards for design and the health
technology space the psychology behind
good ux design how collaborative
processes with various stakeholders make
for successful ux design his outlook on
blockchain's mainstream adoption and
much more just a reminder nothing said
on this podcast is a solicitation to buy
or sell any tokens that nothing should
be taken as Financial advice and that
the host or guests May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode with that
said I really enjoyed chatting with
James and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too
hey guys what's going on today I'm
joined with James wayborn the chief
design officer for coz how you doing
today James I'm very well thank you
Dylan thanks for inviting me on the show
Absolutely your name is kind of one of
those mythical names that's been thrown
around the ecosystem for almost as long
as I've been here we've worked kind of
in the same realm for a long time but
we've never really worked on too many
projects together so I'm really excited
to just kind of dig into everything with
you it's um it's kind of an honor on my
end of the microphone
Community family thank you so let's just
kind of Kick this off with um I
mentioned you're the CDO for coz but
let's just kind of kick it off with uh
who are you and and what do you do okay
so basically I'm working at cos now my
background's in user-centered design I
got into digital design back in the the
Dark Ages around
1998 the early days of the web so as we
were saying two browsers no CSS
too many frames and tables in the code
so yeah I studied as a traditional
graphic designer at Uni and then
stumbled upon web design not long after
I sort of graduated and of course back
then there was there was no sort of
courses there was no uni courses on web
design
so literally I picked up a book on HTML
sat down for a couple of months taught
myself to code I also got a bit involved
in Flash as well which Apple killed off
recently and yeah that's essentially put
a portfolio together and uh started
looking for my first job what was it
about web design that intrigued you
because I remember coding my first
website in HTML and granted I didn't
crack open books and study for months it
was exciting and it was fun but for me
it always was side project things so
what was it that opened your mind to
saying hey this is something that I can
build a career in my background was a
designer I love creating stuff and web
design at the time just felt very fresh
very sort of Cutting Edge and it's
always good to get into an industry
right at this sort of cusp in the early
days so I just thought why not let's get
involved let's get started in it and uh
yeah I didn't know that
so kind of um like going to your Genesis
when do you remember as a kid or as a
teenager or even when you were first
going to UNI when you realized your
calling was design how deep does that
sort of desire to be in this field go
everyone gravitates towards the subject
to a discipline or maybe the different
sides of the brain creative or the more
sort of academic and I heavily
gravitated towards the creative side it
was a no-brainer for me I mean I I first
started exploring going into
architecture because I did I I do and I
still do have a love of building but
through the different processes of
school and subjects it focused on that
sort of um artistic side that was my
true sort of calling and I even studied
Fine Art originally when I first first
went to college but I just felt drawn to
the graphics I like the communication
side I like sort of being able to
directly influence someone's experience
through my own work so it was a it was a
funneling process down to that sort of
graphic design route that I went down
yeah that's really cool I feel like uh I
floundered a lot in school and and in
University you know nothing really
clicked for me until uh the very end of
my University and that was the first
time I got really excited about the
urban planning field so my graduates
degree was actually in the Masters of
urban planning and we shared Studio
space with all the architect students so
you would have uh really enjoyed our
graduate program because there was a lot
of 3D modeling going on and just a lot
of architecture nerds sprinkled
throughout the whole building
it's really cool I I still have a quite
a big interest in in architecture but uh
the as I said my calling for the more
artistic side and the seven year degree
it's at that age you just want to get
out in the world and and start exploring
yeah so this this might be kind of a
difficult question you know you can't
ask a fish what it's like to swim in
water but I'm gonna ask you what's it
like being a professional in the
creative Fields what are some of the
pitfalls that you fall into what are
some of the kind of opportunities that
other fields might not have with the
freedom that creativity offers I mean
luckily for me I love my job they say if
you love your job you'll never have to
work another day again and I fall firmly
into that bracket as I said I've always
had this instinctual urge to be created
so it's a sort of perfect outlet with
regards to the opportunities it allows
you you to directly influence not
influence but sort of help other people
the work that you do especially when I
was working in health technology yeah
there was a there's a real direct
correlation between what you do at your
computer and the difference that you
make in people's lives and yes there's a
lot of occupations that sort of touch on
that but I think in the in the design
field in the ux field you can touch so
many different sort of Industries and
and types of people the the spectrum is
so broad that it just gives you
opportunities that you wouldn't normally
have yeah I want to delve into the areas
you've worked in but something that I
find really interesting and I want to
hear from your perspective I'm not like
a creative in the same way that you are
but you know doing the podcasts and
writing it takes a sort of creative
element so while I'm dipping my toes in
in your world I won't sit here and claim
that you know I have to have the
creative juices flowing 100 to be on but
I do notice that sometimes I have like
writer's block or I just can't get
podcasts put together yet because I
don't have the creative juices flowing
so what's the process like for being
able to quote unquote turn it on or to
remove these blockers when you need to
sit down and provide a design for a
client because you're a professional but
you don't have sort of the Mojo going at
the moment is that prevalent in the work
that you do and if so what are some of
the tricks or things you can do to kind
of push yourself beyond that block in
the moment it 100 happens in my field
the good thing is with experience it
happens less and less so the longer I
mean I've been going for 25 years now
and in the early days I used to get hit
quite hard with it and and it's it's an
as you know yourself it's an awful
experience it's very difficult to get
out of and you end up working late
nights to try and sort of overcome it
and and it's it really is not good
obviously there's a wealth of online
inspiration but that is just a small
side of it luckily
ux design is more more scientific it's
more like engineering than it is the
more aesthetic artistic side so you're
working to a a formula you're working
you're working with factual evidence to
actually produce what you need to
produce
so for example the the process starts
with the users and the business the
client that you're working with so you
need to investigate you need to
thoroughly understand the user's needs
how they're currently fulfilling the
tasks that potentially you're going to
fulfill with a new solution you need to
understand their emotional drivers as
well it's quite interesting emotional
design you look at a user's need such as
I don't know uh I'm a developer I want
to know I want to learn a new language
but when you start digging deeper you
start getting into some really useful
information and it actually comes down
to like real sort of Base human needs
such as
um the developer wants peer recognition
from his friends he wants to be seen as
being Cutting Edge basically just
stroking the ego he wants to be the cool
kid on the Block and you can use those
sort of hooks to make the product not so
much addictive but to keep people coming
back you are you are tapping into those
sort of those emotions so yeah so with
regards to the sort of the creative
block side as I said everything's done
through through research it's not
subjective when I when I create
something I don't want someone to come
over look over my shoulder and go I
don't like that you think you should
change it without being able to turn
around and say that's there because of X
Y and Z because of this Persona this
Persona that is why it's there now tell
me argue against why it shouldn't be
that
so from that point of view it it makes
life a lot easier but you still have the
the look and feel aspect of it the
visual side which can be difficult and I
do still sometimes suffer fundamental
block there but as I said with
experience you develop patterns you
develop ways of working and the blocks
get less and less so if that's any
inspiration for you
it actually is and it's funny that you
talk about why you choose UI ux and it's
something it's a little trick that I do
in my head as well when I'm writing
creating templates or having an outline
for a type of article that I know I'm
gonna have it brings this sort of
objective sort of approach to this
creative thing that is writing so I'm
curious to hear if you started your
career your journey focusing on ux or is
this something you've honed over time
and you just realized I can provide my
skill set and having the objectivity of
having to provide research for why I put
this button here or make it look the
specific way if this is kind of what
you've learned throughout your career
and how you've sort of figured out what
kind of clients you'll start looking to
work with I got into sort of user
experience side died very early in my
first job actually one of my colleagues
previously was a lecturer at Central St
Martin's in central London he's a very
talented designer and he was also very
forward-thinking so back in the sort of
late 90s HDI or uh human computer
interaction wasn't it wasn't a common
term put it that way he introduced me to
that way of thinking and got me involved
with a forum called g-web which is one
of the sort of predominant computer
interaction Forums on the net and from
there in exactly the same way as uh I
taught myself HTML it went back to
hitting the books again so I was
studying works by like Jeff Raskin who
did a lot of the um original work on the
Apple Mac software Alan Cooper
Steve Krug as well another well-known
author and I basically just studied
their work looked at the patterns looked
at the the things that they discovered
the good thing about
um user experience design is it focuses
on the user and users are all different
but the way that humans work is pretty
much the same so people develop their
skills from experience
so you can capitalize that in your
design certain things become habitual
lots of websites have abused a technique
or a pattern people are familiar with
that so then you can employ that to make
your design better I I think it was uh
Steve Krug the author actually his first
book was called Don't Make Me Think and
that is a great line when it comes to
user experience time because
if you can make a user feel smart by not
having to think about how they use the
system or the solution that you've
created then you're on to a winner
because they'll come back they're like
yeah this is cool I know how to use this
that is quite a key factor yeah when I
was a fundraiser in a canvasser I used
to fundraise for a charity it was my
first job out of college and my boss
would always say you're not out here to
get a sign up so you can feel good
you're out here to make it easy for
other people to say yes and so that was
something that was always hard to
conceptualize because we were paid on a
per sign up basis and so there was
always this ego thing where like I want
to get the sign up because I'll get paid
but the easiest ones ever were where you
just kind of walked the person down the
conversation and by the time you got to
the end where you would ask they were
already whipping out their debit card
because the conversation flow and just
the way that everyone was talking
talking made it feel like this was their
decision so that by the time you got to
the end they were jumping ahead of you
and so they kind of got to say like yes
I'm gonna do this you don't even need to
ask me and that was kind of like the
ideal way that we wanted to work to make
it really easy for the person to say yes
and to really make it feel like it was
their decision so there's a little bit
of a parallel there in the way that you
were just describing how good ux design
works it's basic psychology psychology
is a huge part of ux design even in the
simplest way of reducing cognitive load
if people have too many options on the
screen then it's likely to make one
um selection
so it's all these sort of cognitive
observations that psychologists have
made over the years that you can apply
in your work to actually make the
experience better for the users it is it
is quite fascinating I I was amazed when
I scratched the surface How deep the
sort of ux rabbit hole goes it's pretty
deep yeah and you were mentioning that
you worked in the health and I.T field
and I think I'm going to use this
opportunity as a time for you to kind of
chill your accolades in our conversation
the other day you were mentioning that
you won an award in this field so can
you just share a little bit about the
industry award that you won and what
project you were working on so yes in
health technology basically I was
producing digital tools for patients
um in in different sort of uh areas such
as multiple sclerosis HIV respiratory
and one of the areas I was looking at
was cystic fibrosis and basically we're
putting together a support platform for
kids with cystic fibrosis and it's a
pretty awful condition and basically
this platform was divided up into the
different age groups and it was catering
for them you know in a sort of
conversational way what were their needs
what do they need to get out what how
could they best sort of deal with their
condition and
um yeah the site went really well and in
the end took gold at the uh industry
Awards so that was really cool there was
also another one as well for in the UK
the National Health Service we're
rolling out the flu vaccination program
so I worked on the initial campaign
putting together all the sort of online
supporting material and also picked up
Excellence Commendation at the RX awards
for that so yeah it was good Healthcare
was a great reward in Industry to work
in yeah and so I kind of wanted to to
allow you to show yourself there because
obviously with health you know it's such
a personal experience for me personally
like I didn't care about the healthcare
field at all you know as a young healthy
guy and then a couple years ago I fell
off my bike and split my knee open and I
had to go through the U.S Health Care
system and now I have all these sort of
opinions
so there was I guess you could call it
this this large cognitive load because
like now I had this very personal sort
of relationship with the health care
system and I started to have my own
ideas and my own experiences that shaped
the way I think so when you're dealing
with something like cystic fibrosis or
even the flu shot which I'm sure now
after the pandemic people have all sorts
of opinions and and personal
relationships with that topic when
you're designing for such a heavy
subject matter what are the sort of
things that go into your your sort of
design process to reduce the cognitive
load like how do you make me feel not so
bad about having to dig through a cystic
fibrosis user guide to find the answers
I'm looking for what are the sort of
tips tricks things you look at to reduce
that cognitive load to make it just
simple for people to use the website
they need to use in like an objective
way and to remove that like subjective
personal relationship with it again it
comes down to extensive interviews
speaking to the patients really digging
into how the condition affects them what
their environments are like
um I worked with the Ministry of Health
in Kenya which was quite an interesting
project so basically the Ministry of
Health and the cancer Alliance wanted to
create a funding system for the poorer
parts of society in Kenya I mean you
were just talking about the U.S
Healthcare System but
the Kenyan one would probably have you
beat
I mean some of it some of these patients
were having to walk three days to the
Capitol hospital to receive cancer
treatment they were then living on the
streets for a couple of days till they
go back for their next round of
treatments I mean this this is and this
is even if they had some funding or some
some money was pulled together so when
you sort of dig into their sort of
plight it really hits home how you can
make a difference so so as I said
extensive interviews we we traveled out
to rural Villages speaking to like
medicine men Believe It or Not There are
medicine men it's not just doctors there
are sort of the village medicine man
he's like the first points it's like
mapping the the patient Journey where
they go and you sort of map that whole
journey out to get to the treatment to
fully understand so it was yeah with the
patients speaking with their points of
contact so starting with the medicine
man then maybe it's an oncologist in a
local rural Hospital right through to
Leading oncologists in the the capitals
main hospital and it's understanding
each step of the way what they're going
through what their emotional feelings
are at that stage to allow you to
overcome those burdens that they face to
make it easier for them this was a
really complex project because of the
nature of cancer and the effect it has
on the patients but also dealing with
funding systems I mean so many workshops
with the administrative health and and
the sort of other leading parties that
were involved to try and formulate a
system that will work with their
existing systems and and it's easy for
them as well as it's easy for the
patient to make it work you have to
understand the user I'll give you an
example I've used this before but it
does work quite well so imagine you were
going to the finest restaurant in your
town maybe not in your town maybe in the
nearest city the finest restaurant okay
the decor is absolutely beautiful the
chef is a Michelin star Chef produces
the finest food the atmosphere is great
so you walk in you sit down at the table
straight away you've got a plate of food
put in front of you I okay you haven't
spoken to the waiter you haven't really
thought about how your day's been are
you feeling hungry are you just looking
for a taste experience what foods do you
not like immediately kind of maybe
you've got an allergy to them what are
the chances bearing in mind best chef
expert you know Top Chef in the world
beautiful settings what are the chances
of you having a good experience from
that meal I mean don't answer it's about
50 50.
you could have an amazing experience and
the chef got lucky there again you could
have a really bad experience and you
were given fish and you don't eat fish
or whatever it may be and and this is
the same with software design you can
have the best developers best designers
unless you actually speak to the user
and find out how they need to do things
who they are you've severely reduced the
chances of producing something that will
actually work and this is where so many
companies go wrong yeah I want to Parlay
that experience into the work you do now
at Cog but I just really interested in
in learning more about what it was like
collaborating with the medicine men when
you hear about medicine men you think of
like these hokey sort of rituals like
dancing around a fire or something like
that or feeding uh some sort of herb to
a patient an ancient herb that has been
passed down from generation to
generation so I guess as Society has
become more technological and just kind
of like caught up are medicine men
starting to integrate modern processes
is into the ways that they diagnose
people who live in a village are they
using the internet to kind of update
their skills and expertise or is it
still very traditional sort of medicine
that's been passed down from generation
to generation it's quite traditional and
it was one of the sort of identified
blockers of getting them to actually
refer patients the rural hospitals have
been working really closely with the
sort of medicine men and the sort of
helps people in the village to actually
get them to push patients through
because they will diagnose it as
something else patience will
not see the treatment or receive
treatment quick enough to actually make
a difference so there are a number of
sort of educational initiatives run by
the sort of local Community Hospitals to
actually educate them bring them up to
speed they have to work with them it's
part of the culture it's part of
tradition it's not going anywhere and I
think like with everything uh it differs
from person to person some people were
very sort of traditional and and sort of
felt they were the authority others were
more willing to to learn but it was one
of the factors that we sort of looked at
because mobile technology is huge over
there most people access the internet
via mobile so being able to sort of
capitalize on that was one of the things
that we were looking at where we could
actually have some kind of education via
sort of Telehealth but yeah interesting
yeah I used to work for multiple
government agencies and particularly
when we would go into low-income
communities with grants or something
like that it was the whole where the
government we're here to help you trust
us never worked we always had to
collaborate with local community leaders
yeah and be able to get on board with
them first so that they could then push
the message through in the way that
their Community would trust and under
understand
that the funds that are coming from this
entity don't have a string attached they
are here to help you but you know you're
not going to trust uh somebody who
doesn't act like you speak like you talk
like you live like you just coming into
your community and saying uh we're gonna
do it our way trust us so that's really
interesting so kind of parlaying all
this information
into the work you do now I think
something that was kind of pertinent
that you mentioned earlier in our
conversation is that when you graduated
University and you started going into
web design it was at the very Cutting
Edge of the time of design and the time
so do you find yourself attracted to
Cutting Edge fields and maybe we can
start using this to transition into the
blockchain field did this kind of draw
to web design and The Cutting Edge in
the late 90s did you kind of feel that
when you came to the blockchain space
and what was just your General entry
into the blockchain space what was your
first project here it was different I
got into the blockchain accidentally it
wasn't a conscious decision basically
one of my team
um and the company I was working in got
interested in crypto and
um started doing some work with coz help
helping out with some of the sort of
Design Elements he put me in touch with
Tyler because Tyler was starting up a
new project and basically it went from
there I got in touch with Thailand I
said I need some help with this can you
help out so started doing some small
pieces
um I think we were working on a white
paper at the time so it was just more
stuff like putting together
illustrations and what have you and then
it led into actually going full time on
the project ditching my previous job and
uh going both feet into into blockchain
what what field were you in before you
went into blockchain were you still in
the health Technology field busted in
health debt yeah I was in healthcare for
about 10 years before blockchain so I
think I think it was also the moving on
to something new having a new challenge
I like a new challenge also but I
alluded to earlier on so
blockchain was a complete unknown entity
and it was quite interesting and
obviously working on the the white paper
and and seeing what was uh written I was
still again first hand information of
what the potential was for for this
particular product and yeah I just got
bit and I thought yeah I want to work on
this and the speed at which things
happen in the blockchain space you know
you're talking 2017 back then defy and
nfts weren't even a thing so there's
just so much rapid Innovation compared
to the previous Fields you've worked in
do you feel like this sort of continuous
change in introduction of new Concepts
into the blockchain space
kind of keeps you from thinking about
another field that you might want to
design in like maybe when you were in
the it in the the health Technology
field over time you were like maybe I'd
like to look at something different but
the speed at which things iterate and
change in the blockchain space do you
find that you even have time to think
about what's next no no really
as you said it said it's early early
stages it's still quite immature to some
extent with new technologies coming up
all the time but the exciting thing is
we do have this this feeling that it's
on the cusp of becoming a mass adopted
sort of Technology the technology sound
finding that making that step into the
mainstream is the next step and I 100
want to be there for when that actually
happens and the whole thing just
explodes because that'll be that'll be
an exciting time to be involved in the
industry what do you think are some of
the pitfalls that users especially new
users because I like to ask this
question with almost all our guests what
do you think is the thing that's going
to help us 10x the users in blockchain
right now like how do we get like let's
say there are 10 million people across
the world using cryptocurrencies and
blockchains today how do we get from 10
million to 100 million one of the
biggest thing and I found this it was
the one uh designers are very good at
not knowing things and I'll explain that
I don't know what a doctor does but I
know how to get the information I need
in order to help him do his job
blockchain was the first industry where
to really get the best out of myself
I had to dig and dive into the sort of
Technology because it's quite a steep
learning curve there's so much to
actually understand even to just get a
grasp of what's actually happening and I
think that's that's the biggest burden
that the industry has at the moment
preventing it from Mass adoption is the
complexity of the technology and the
fact that there's there isn't a real way
to dumb that down very well at the
moment and I think that's where ux will
onto the fore by abstracting some of the
more complex aspects of it and
simplifying it down I mean the gateway
to sort of blockchain is that your
address or your private key or whatever
I mean you've got how many characters
have you got there to deal with it's not
something that you're going to remember
off the top of your head you're going to
have to copy and paste it save it
somewhere it doesn't fit into the the
current mental models of users when they
have access to something on the Internet
so I can use my own password or whatever
so yeah I think simplifying it down
varying a lot more underneath the Bonnet
as it were to allow the user to drive
the car but not worry too much about how
the brakes are working and what have you
that will make a big difference but we
also need more projects that are
exploring that crossover for example
within ft's actually been able to
digitize I know a lot of companies are
trying to do this now so that there's
certainly a lot of a lot of noise in the
industry across various chains where
people are trying to put assets on the
blockchain and I think that's where
it'll go but we still have that that
block to entry that burden of Entry of
the technology and and it's about just
yeah just just dulling that down a
little bit for the average user so they
can have a clear mental model and they
can have it quite quickly when I was
first getting into crypto and blockchain
and all that it was 2017 and when I was
doing my round of deep dives into the
thought leaders of the time
and kind of the ogs back then who'd been
in the space for five plus years a
constant thing I'd heard is that one of
the detriments or barriers to entry was
this user experience you know like they
were talking about what it was like to
have a Bitcoin wallet and how back in
the in the day back in the day back in
their day how you had to create a paper
wallet and how this was a cumbersome
process and that was just something that
stuck out to me when I was first getting
in because I've learned how to use
Napster I've learned how to code in HTML
so basically like scraping my knees to
learn new technological processes is
just something I'd been doing my whole
life I'm internet native I've had the
internet for as long as I can remember
so in the past five years since hearing
this do you think that ux design has
kept up with the pace of other
industries of reducing friction for new
users or do you think because Bitcoin
and crypto and blockchain networks are
still so nascent that we haven't been
able to create design that keeps up so
quickly and makes it easy for new users
to onboard obviously we're better now
than we were in 2017 but can you compare
the blockchain industry to something
that's been around for 15 or 20 years or
is it comparable at the rate at which ux
design has improved it's kind of a big
broad question but yeah I feel the the
blockchain space is a bit like those
companies back when I first started to
some extent it's not quite as bad you
don't have to get ux employed in the in
the Pro process but blockchain is new
it's a very developer heavy industry as
you said it's very quick moving people
want to get products out quickly and ux
is a very it's another tangible entity
you can't see it you can feel it when
you use a product but you can't see it
and it's usually the the first thing to
sort of go when you're trying to get a
product out people want stuff designed
they want it designed quick they want to
be able to see something right now let's
get it developed let's get it out the
door and and that is what it's been like
when it was like in the sort of early
days of um blockchain but I think people
are seeing now as it's matured and how
the appreciation for user experience has
grown it's one of the the biggest
failings of a lot of startups not
getting a good user experience it's
killed so many over the years because
the developers are working in a bit of
an echo chamber they're producing it
they understand it the people they work
with understand it but when they put it
in front of a user they've got clue they
struggle and and the products fail
because of it so I think as the industry
is now maturing ux's is certainly
becoming more and more prominent and and
valued and I think once we start moving
more into the mass adoption and moving
into the mass markets it's a must you
have to because you because as we were
saying you have to make the experience
relatable to the complete new the
non-developer the non-blockchain person
that's where it's going to play its
biggest role when I worked for
Department of transportations I often
said my role as a planner was to convert
engineer speak into human speak so I can
only imagine that the realm you work in
it can often feel over overwhelming
because you're speaking with people like
Tyler and other developers who are just
Uber smart and so into the weeds but
like you know I don't understand
how to code a net 5 or an f17 token I
don't know how to add an oracle Network
call into a script or anything like that
but here I am I write about this
industry day in and day out so how do
you deal with kind of speaking with
engineers and developers who have these
really complex very Network architecture
heavy understandings of the way that
these blockchain networks work but you
know at the end of the day you're quote
unquote like just a designer or whatever
how do you take the things that they say
internalize it and then turn that around
into something that's simple for me to
use I don't
and I'll explain
ux design is a group activity it's not a
singular activity a ux designer does not
work on their own or they shouldn't work
on their own so the whole team needs to
be brought along with the process so for
example when you're doing the research
to begin with you're speaking to users
so on and so forth
they need to be aware of that what I
like to do when when the research is
done you synthesized all your sort of
data you've got your personas and your
sort of benchmarking models to be able
to sort of move into the next stage I I
always run a workshop called a design
studio than if you've heard of that but
basically
get into a room get your research up on
the walls you get your personas and you
see the tasks that people need to do and
in the room you have you have a
developer you have a product owner you
have the designer maybe you even have a
client or a user and you set out the
task and each person has to get just
with a fat marker on a piece of paper
obviously in this digital age we use
something like a Myro board or something
like that but you get them to sketch out
how they would go about creating an
interface or even just a flow you could
if they can't draw they can use words to
explain what they're thinking so
everyone does around they draw out their
first sort of concept to solve this
problem and they present it back to the
group the group then has a critique on
each design picking out the good bits
the bad bits so on and so forth
they then pair up so two people get
together and they do it again with the
learnings from that sort of first round
and again it's critiqued people talk
about the good things the bad things and
then the final stage then is you do a
final design with the group
now the beauty of doing this is you pull
all the expertise from all the people in
the room you get the designers inputs
you get the developer's input it's
discussed it's a group think on how to
solve this problem so when I'm working
with Tyler and we're for example he's
trying to convey a concept let's sketch
it out talk it through map out actually
what's going to happen because then it
allows the complex Concepts to be
conveyed in a tangible way that you can
sort of pick up but that collaborative
nature and the process that team way of
working is vital to a a successful
project I've worked in so many companies
where things have been quite Silo except
designers work in isolation developers
work in isolation and it's almost like
the designer then Chucks the designs
over the wall to the developers they
pick it up look at it go that ain't
gonna work and Chuck it back over again
when they work as a team right from the
beginning the developers know why
something is done like that in fact they
even know the user group that it's been
done specifically for
so you just move out the development
process it's far more efficient everyone
works together everyone's on the same
page so it's sort of techniques like
that that I employ when I'm working with
really smart people like Tyler and to
try and work out exactly uh how we can
turn these Concepts into a tangible
output and I can imagine that throughout
the different stages of your career the
design workshops were different maybe
when you were working in the health
Technology field you were doing
in-person design workshops and now that
you're in the blockchain space you're
working with coz the CDO you're probably
doing more web-based design workshops so
what are the differences between doing
them in person and doing them web-based
and when you're doing the web-based
workshops today are you doing them
asynchronously or are you getting
everybody on a call at the same time to
kind of be in the same digital room and
work through this together it's
difficult it was quite a hard transition
moving from in-person working to working
online
as much as it's easy to jump on Discord
and type a message and have a chat about
something it's not the same as being in
the same room as the developers as the
product owners to have quick meetings on
the Fly sort of during the day so it was
a bit of a challenge at first but
actually there are some benefits to it
so as I said I use a tool called Miro
which is basically like a shared
whiteboard where users can jump in we
usually have that on the screen we've
got Google meet going as well we have
everyone in the room as I said you you
need that input and from sort of
different expertise and you also need
buy-in as well you need the team to all
buy into where you're going to move
forward otherwise you'll do something
and then next week someone will pop up
and say this isn't working for me we
need to do this and you just wasted a
whole lot of time so 100 done together
but the great thing about Myro is it's a
small thing but you overcome people's
fear of not being able to draw it it's
it's amazing how people object to having
to do the exercise I can't draw I can't
draw
whereas when you've got Miro you can
easily drag a box out and just type
something in it you even have wireframe
in templates that you can just drag
stuff off which gets over that problem
there and you've also got this sort of
central place that people could come
back to can look at make comments on
um revise at a later date so it does
work quite well but you do lose that
human side that face-to-face
conversation the reading the thoughts
seeing the emotions of the people you're
working with to grow them a bit further
dig deeper it's the same with doing user
interviews when you're in person you can
pick up on all those sort of human
reactions that you can't do so easily
when you're doing it over the web but it
works well I think covert has forced
this upon all of us to uh adapt and move
on so when did you first hear about
Bitcoin in crypto
exactly about three weeks before I
started speaking to Tyler really no I I
that that's a lie I did hear about
Bitcoin sort of in the in the earliest
days but just as like a news article and
pretty much dismissed it as a something
someone else was doing I ask because it
sounds like we've been in the space for
about the same amount of time and when I
first got here the polling narratives
were Bitcoin not blockchain and then it
was is all about blockchain and tokens
and as time has kind of like gone on
especially in the past year or two
there's been this kind of migration to
this Narrative of web3 so I'm just kind
of curious to hear what are your
insights on just The Branding of the
blockchain space and how it's matured
over the years particularly as we've
been here
and what does web3 even mean today to a
designer to some extent web3 to me is it
almost sits above Chains It's a a way of
conveying a service to users one thing
that is a couple of projects we've been
looking at recently
um sort of working as we were saying
earlier more in the mainstream outside
of the blockchain bubble and a lot of
people don't care what chain they're
actually working with they just want the
benefits of the technology
so I feel like the web 3 is almost
becoming chain agnostic for a lot of
Outsiders now it's just the technology
which which is quite a cool thing I mean
it's the obviously different chains have
different particular benefits but being
able to account for all I think is the
way that web 3 is going which is quite
cool I think the adoption then has a
greater chance you're not um siloing
people so this question comes from Edge
so I don't necessarily know what these
are but he asked this so hopefully it
clicks with you when it comes to UI and
ux design especially with web3
applications what's your perspective on
the most common anti-patterns that you
see
it's a tough one and I haven't actively
looked I would say just the general sort
of usability of it because
it's not been designed from a user's
perspective it's been designed to work
and get a job done so a lot of the the
patterns you see there are out of
necessity rather than actual thought as
it were I don't know if that quite
answers your question no it totally
answers my question so kind of uh
wrapping up here coz recently went
through a reorg and you're now a council
member and I have throughout the years
in the space I've mentioned this on on a
recent podcast I have felt like an
imposter because I'm just a writer and
not a developer coder but as my time in
the Neo ecosystem has kind of progressed
I've moved into becoming a voice on
Grant shares and voting for how funds
will be distributed I've been come to be
known as a voice that people come to to
listen to if they want to hear what's
going on in the Neo ecosystem and they
can trust that they're not going to be
Shield or or told anything you know
swayed by my own personal opinion
they're gonna get objective fact-based
information from me so while I might
personally feel like an imposter
sometimes just my history in this
ecosystem and my current roles like this
is just the status and The Stance I have
so you've been with coz for four years
now and you are now on the coz Council
so what kind of perspective do you want
to bring to the direction of coz now
that you kind of have like a weight in
the votes for the way that the entity
moves forward I'm quite process driven I
like like having processes in place so
Cosby and Origins being like a community
it hasn't been like a traditional
company and that's and that's a good
thing but as we're moving forward and
the types of work that we're doing are
slightly changing those processes need
to start coming into place so the I mean
and this has already started a happening
of actually bringing in formal design
processes processes for collaboration
between the uh different departments
more structuring of the the projects
that we are working on and coming from
the background that I have done I've got
quite a good insight into what works
what doesn't work so on and so forth so
just trying to bring that into the team
basically but it's pretty good getting
behind the curtaining because seeing the
workings and just trying to drive the
growth trying to grow the growth of
course awesome I think uh the final
question I want to ask
what do you think is the next Trend or
topic that we're going to see arise in
the blockchain industry over the next
year or two I think the importance of
the wallet is gonna rise exponentially
in fact wallet isn't even a great term
for the entity that potentially it'll
become
with the the sort of digital identity
side of things becoming more and more
prominent the fact that you have nfts
you have lots of things that are going
into this wallet entity that really it's
outgrown that that title from the early
days of just being a somewhere to store
your private keys and your in your
crypto so I I do see the wallet becoming
almost the passport into web 3 and the
the growth of that and the relatability
of of the wallet to to new users as I
said sort of uh abstracting the
technology making it more easy to use
I think that's probably the next big
thing for me that's something that I
said I'm glad I've done so much work in
the early days on digital identity
because I'm going to bring as much of
that to the poor as I can in in future
projects awesome James this was a great
conversation I've been looking forward
to sitting down and sharing the mic with
you for a long time been a big fan of
all the design work you've done with coz
I've been using the products that you
have had a hand in for a very long time
so uh just was very excited to have you
join the Pod and I think this was a
great conversation and I want to thank
you so much for sharing your time with
us today was really cool cool thank you
for having me Dylan pleasure absolutely
would love to have you again cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
cool to hear about James's work and the
health technology industry and how a lot
of those Lessons Learned are applicable
to ux design principles for the
blockchain space it was also interesting
to learn more about the role that
elements of psychology play and good ux
design and it was awesome to hear
James's commitment to being here in the
blockchain space until it becomes a
mainstream technology on that note I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time
[Music]